Version deprecation warning (#9839)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/migrate-off-legacy-dbt-versions.md

---
title: "Migrate off legacy dbt versions"
id: migrate-off-legacy-dbt-versions
description: "A quickstart for moving environments and jobs off legacy dbt versions to a dbt Core release track."
hoverSnippet: "Move your environments and jobs off legacy dbt versions to a release track."
icon: 'guides'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['Migration', 'dbt Core', 'dbt platform', 'Upgrade']
keywords: ['legacy dbt version', 'release track', 'migrate dbt version', 'upgrade dbt version']
level: 'Beginner'
---

> Legacy <Constant name="core" /> versions v1.3–v1.7 are being deprecated on January 31, 2027. To keep your work running and supported, move your environments and jobs to a [<Constant name="core" /> release track](/docs/dbt-versions/dbt-release-tracks) now. A release track keeps you on a supported version automatically and prepares your project for [<Constant name="fusion_engine" />](/docs/fusion/about-fusion) later.

Reviewer: This date is hard-coded in three pages. Should we turn it. into a reusable in case it shifts and so it's easy to find?

Author: Yup! I'll create a constant for it!

:::info The single-hop path

Move to a <Constant name="core" /> release track now; move to <Constant name="fusion" /> later. Migrating first to a supported release track lowers your migration risk and gets you on a supported version faster.

:::

> Your project code, connections, and history stay accessible throughout. Nothing is permanently removed as part of this migration.

Reviewer: un-migrated legacy environments/jobs are deleted as we say later so might want to clarify this.

Author: Removing that last part

## Identify projects using legacy versions

> What you migrate is driven by a job's or environments effective version. The version pinned on the job if one is set, otherwise the version its environment defaults to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What you migrate is driven by a job's effective version: the version pinned on the job if one is set, otherwise the version its environment inherits.
```

> 1. Navigate to **Orchestration** > **Environments** and note any environment whose **dbt version** is v1.3–v1.7.

Reviewer: Optional feedback: should we link to a way to find the version or say it's in Settings? Oh how I wish it was obvious hen you get to the environments page.

Author: Yeah, good call!

> 1. Navigate to **Orchestration** > **Environments** and note any environment whose **dbt version** is v1.3–v1.7.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Orchestration** > **Environments** and note any environment whose **dbt version** is v1.3–v1.7. The current version is displayed below the environment name. 
```

> 2. Open the jobs in your supported environments and check for any job with a **version override** pinned to v1.3–v1.7.

Reviewer: Should we direct them to Orchestration > Jobs  to make it easier?

Author: Also a valid approach but the method here is to put the environment first, evaluate the setitng, then the individual jobs within

|---------------------|-------------|-------------|
| Legacy (v1.3–v1.7) | Inherits from environment, or pinned to a legacy version | [Migrate the environment to a release track](#migrate-an-environment-to-a-release-track) |
| Legacy (v1.3–v1.7) | At least one job pinned to a supported version | [Migrate the environment to a release track](#migrate-an-environment-to-a-release-track); the supported jobs are retained |
| Supported | One or more jobs pinned to a legacy version | [Update the job's version](#update-a-jobs-version); the environment is untouched |
| Legacy and **dormant** (unused 12+ months) | — | [Delete the environment](#delete-a-dormant-environment), or migrate it if you still need it |

If you don't migrate a legacy environment or clear a legacy job, it's cleaned up when legacy versions are retired: a legacy environment (and its jobs) is deleted, a legacy environment that already has a job on a supported version is **updated** with only the legacy jobs removed, and a supported environment with legacy-pinned jobs keeps the environment and loses **only those jobs**.

## Migrate an environment to a release track

To update your environment to a release track:

> 1. Navigate to the settings page of the environment, then click **Edit**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the Settings page of the environment, then click **Edit**.
```

## Update a job's version

If a job on a supported environment is pinned to a legacy version, clear or change the override:

1. Open the job's settings and find the **dbt version** setting.
2. Either clear the override so the job inherits the environment's version, or set it to a [release track](/docs/dbt-versions/dbt-release-tracks).
3. Save your changes.

## Delete a dormant environment

If a legacy environment has been dormant for a year or more, and you no longer need it, delete it. (If you still need it, [migrate it to a release track](#migrate-an-environment-to-a-release-track) instead.)

import DeleteEnvironment from '/snippets/_delete-environment.md';

<DeleteEnvironment />

## Validate your migration

Moving from a pinned legacy version to a release track can surface behavior changes, dependency issues, or adapter differences that weren't visible before. To reduce risk:

- Test in a development environment before upgrading your production and default development environments.
- Review your compile, build, and job run results after the change.

> - Keep a fallback path available in case you need to roll back.

Reviewer: How do you keep a fallback path?

Author: Should say "establish"
